Rule: Element with `lang` attribute has valid language tag - TF feedback amendments (#1383)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/element-lang-valid-de46e4.md

## Applicability

This rules applies to any HTML element with a `lang` [attribute value][] that is not empty (`""`) and for which all of the following is true:

- the element is a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] of a `body` element; and

> - the element has a [node document][] with a [content type][] of `text/html`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the element has a [node document][] with a [content type][] of `text/html`; and
```

> - the element has a [visible][] [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][].

Reviewer: I think this should be in line with what I did here:

https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1334/files#diff-53f178e37d6189f50875615ad27cecddR20

```suggestion
- the element has a [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] that is [visible][] or [included in the accessibility tree][].
```

> - the element has a [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] that is [visible][] or [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer: Recommend adding failed examples, one for visible but not in the accessibility tree, and one for not visible but still in the accessibility tree.

- has a `lang` attribute that is not empty ("").
- the element is a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] of a `body` element; and
- the element has a [node document][] with a [content type][] of `text/html`.
- the element has a [visible][] [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][].

## Expectation

For each test target, the value of the `lang` attribute is a [valid language tag][].

## Assumptions

> - The `lang` attribute is assumed to be used to indicate the language of a section of the content. If the `lang` attribute is used for something else (for example to indicate a `code` element contains CSS), the content may still conform to WCAG despite failing this rule.

Reviewer: Why was this removed?

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: One of the previous comments was citing that this is irrelevant - https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1383#discussion_r452141399, hence removed it.

Let me know if I should add it back.

Reviewer: I think this should be put back.

## Applicability

> This rules applies to any HTML element with a `lang` [attribute value][] that is not empty (`""`) and for which all the following is true:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This rules applies to any HTML element with a `lang` [attribute value][] that is not empty (`""`) and for which all the following are true:
```

grammar

## Applicability

This rules applies to any HTML element with a `lang` [attribute value][] that is not empty (`""`) and for which all of the following is true:

- the element is a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] of a `body` element; and
- the element has a [node document][] with a [content type][] of `text/html`; and
- the element has a [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] that is [visible][] or [included in the accessibility tree][].

## Expectation

> For each test target, the value of the `lang` [attribute value][] is a [valid language tag][].

Reviewer: Oof! Good catch!

> This rules applies to any HTML element that:

Reviewer: This needs to follow the new structure:

```suggestion
This rules applies to any HTML element with a `lang` [attribute value][] that is not empty (`""`) and for which all the following is true:
```

> - has a [node document][] with a [content type][] of `text/html`; and
> - is a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] of a `body` element; and
> - has a `lang` attribute that is not empty (`""`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the element is a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] of a `body` element; and
- the element has a [node document][] with a [content type][] of `text/html`.
```

> 

Reviewer: Please note that the TF suggested that elements without text content not be applicable. Definitely belongs in a different PR, but that does mean this PR doesn't fully address the feedback from the TF.

Reviewer 2: Could that not be an additional condition within this list, added with this PR?

Author: I added this as an additional condition within this list.

## Expectation

For each test target, the value of the `lang` attribute is a [valid language tag][].

## Assumptions

> - The language of the page can be set by other methods than the `lang` attribute, for example using HTTP headers or the `meta` element. These methods are not supported by all assistive technologies. This rule assumes that these other methods are insufficient to satisfying [Success Criterion 3.1.1: Language of Page][].

Reviewer: This rule is about sections of content. I don't see how this is relevant.

Reviewer 2: Agree with Wilco that this assumption is less relevant for this rule. Even if the page language is not set, a `lang` attribute on a page element would have relevance and would need to be valid. That `lang` attribute should indicate the language of everything within the element the attribute is on.

#### Passed Example 1

The `lang` attribute has a value that is not empty (`""`) and has a valid language tag.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="en">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The `lang` attribute has a value that is not empty (`""`) and has a valid language tag. The region section in the value is ignored by the rule.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<blockquote lang="fr-CH">

> 			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.

Reviewer: This needs to be French, otherwise it doesn't pass the SC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			Les livres sont des amis froids et sûrs.
```

A little Victor Hugo perhaps?

#### Passed Example 1

The `lang` [attribute value][] is not empty (`""`) and has a valid language tag.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="en">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Passed Example 2

The `lang` [attribute value][] is not empty (`""`) and has a valid language tag. The region section in the value is ignored by the rule.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<blockquote lang="fr-CH">
			Ils se sont promenés dans un étrange bar Tiki en bordure de la petite ville balnéaire.
		</blockquote>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Passed Example 3

> The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but a syntactically invalid region subtag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but a syntactically invalid region subtag which is ignored by the rule.
```

#### Passed Example 1

This `article` element has a `lang` [attribute value][] which is not empty (`""`) and has a [valid language tag][].

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="en">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Passed Example 2

This `blockquote` element has a `lang` [attribute value][] which is not empty (`""`) and has a [valid language tag][]. The region section in the value is ignored by the rule (and the definition of [valid language tag][]).

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<blockquote lang="fr-CH">
			Ils ont trouvé un étrange bar Tiki aux abords de la petite ville balnéaire.
		</blockquote>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Passed Example 3

> This `p` element has a`lang` [attribute value][] which has a [valid language tag][], but a syntactically invalid region subtag which is ignored by the rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `p` element has a `lang` [attribute value][] which has a [valid language tag][], but a syntactically invalid region subtag which is ignored by the rule.
```

#### Failed Example 1

The `lang` [attribute value][] is not a primary language subtag.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="dutch">
			Zij liepen een vreemde Tiki bar binnen, aan de rand van een dorpje aan het strand.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The `lang` [attribute value][] is not empty (`""`) and is not a primary language subtag.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="#!">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `lang` [attribute value][] consists of only [whitespace][] and is not a [valid language tag][].

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="  ">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but its [descendant][] is not [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer 3: So it is inapplicable, right?

Author: I believe the applicability does a play in words, where it is applicable for either visible or included in accessibility tree. So that is what the below 2 examples are trying to show.

Reviewer 3: You are absolutely correct sir!

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="english">
			<p aria-hidden="true">
				They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 5

> The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but its [descendant][] is not [visible][], it is still [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but its [descendant][] is not [visible][], though it is still [included in the accessibility tree][].
```

Minor grammar suggestion

> The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but its [descendant][] is not [visible][] though it is still [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer 3: This is also inapplicable, right?

Author: See - https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1383#discussion_r501678774

#### Failed Example 1

This `article` element has a `lang` [attribute value][] which does not have a [valid language tag][] because its primary language subtag does not exist in the registry.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="dutch">
			Zij liepen een vreemde Tiki bar binnen, aan de rand van een dorpje aan het strand.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This `article` element has a `lang` [attribute value][] which is not a [valid language tag][].

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="#!">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 3

> This `article` element` has a `lang` [attribute value][] which consists of only [whitespace][] and thus is not a [valid language tag][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `article` element has a `lang` [attribute value][] which consists of only [whitespace][] and thus is not a [valid language tag][].
```

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="  ">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but its [descendant][] is not [included in the accessibility tree][] though it is still [visible][].

Reviewer 3: You need to update the description. If the language tag was valid then this would be a pass ;-)

> The `lang` [attribute value][] does not have a valid language tag, and its [descendant][] is not [included in the accessibility tree][] though it is still [visible][].

Reviewer 4: Being included in the accessibility tree has nothing to do with the Expectation.
This description makes it look like this is a reason for failure. This is not the case.

If the idea of this (and following example) is to show that Applicability is a "or" (visible or accessible), I'd move them to Passed Example (updating code) with a description pointing that ("it is not included in the accessibility tree but is still visible, hence it is Applicable").

> The `lang` [attribute value][] does not have a valid language tag, and its [descendant][] is not [included in the accessibility tree][] though it is still [visible][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `lang` [attribute value][] does not have a valid language tag. The `lang` attribute must be valid because the content is [visible][].
```

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="english">
			<p aria-hidden="true">
				They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 5

> The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but its [descendant][] is not [visible][] though it is still [included in the accessibility tree][].

Reviewer 3: Same here. If the language tag is valid, this is a pass!

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="dutch">
			Zij liepen een vreemde Tiki bar binnen, aan de rand van een dorpje aan het strand.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The `lang` attribute value is not empty (`""`) and is not a primary language subtag.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="#!">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 3

The `lang` attribute value consists of only [whitespace][] and is not a [valid language tag][].

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="  ">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> The `lang` attribute value has a valid language tag, but does not have a [visible][] [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][].

Reviewer: Wouldn't that make this inapplicable?

Reviewer 2: With the additional applicability - yes, and I think should continue to be included as an inapplicable example.

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="dutch">

> 			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			Zij liepen een vreemde Tiki bar binnen, aan de rand van een dorpje aan het strand.
```

```html
<html lang="en">
	<body>
		They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

An empty `lang` [attribute value][] is ignored, as the rule only applies to `lang` attributes that are not empty (`""`).

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

> The `lang` [attribute value][] has a valid language tag, but does not have a [visible][] [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][].

Reviewer 3: Is "hidden" a valid language tag?

Author: @carlosapaduarte this [comment](https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1383#discussion_r494234889) and the one prior to it should help.

Reviewer 3: I understand @WilcoFiers point, and I would perhaps side with @EmmaJP that having an invalid value makes the example less clear. 
Nevertheless, the example description cannot state the language tag is valid because it is not :-)

```html
<html>
	<body>

> 		<p lang="en">

Author: @WilcoFiers I do not follow what you mean there. The example aims to show that a node with valid language tag  but no descendant text nodes is not applicable. 
What are you suggesting?

> 		<p lang="en">

Reviewer: What I'm suggesting is in my suggestion ;-). What this test case should demonstrate is that invalid lang attributes shouldn't fail if there's no text in them.

> 		<p lang="en">

Reviewer 2: While the text display value is none, it doesn't matter what the lang attribute value is. It is inapplicable for testing, according to the applicability above. 

If the text display value were to change for some reason, then the validity of the lang value would become relevant. So while the lang value could be anything in this example, I think having an invalid value would make this example of something inapplicable for this rule less clear.

> 

Reviewer 4: Update description in the line of "there is no element with a `lang` attribute value which is a descendant of a `body` element".

```html
<html lang="en">
	<body>
		They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

> An empty `lang` [attribute value][] is ignored, as the rule only applies to `lang` attributes that are not empty (`""`).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This `article` element has an empty `lang` [attribute value][] and is thus ignored by the rule.
```
or
```suggestion
There is no element with a non-empty `lang` [attribute value][].
```

```html
<html>
	<body>
		<article lang="">
			They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

> The `lang` [attribute value][] does not have a valid language tag, and does not have a [visible][] [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This `p` element does not have a [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] that is either [visible][] or [included in the accessibility tree][].
```
or 
```suggestion
There is no element with a [text node][] as a [descendant][] in the [flat tree][] that is either [visible][] or [included in the accessibility tree][].
```

```html
<html>
	<body>

> 		<p lang="hidden">

Reviewer 4: Use a valid language. Having an invalid one does not bring anything to that example (it's about visible/accessible text).
```suggestion
		<p lang="en">
```

Reviewer: Right but then this does not prove the case this test is for; that an invalid lang attribute should not fail if it's on a hidden element.

			<span style="display: none;">
				They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
			</span>
		</p>
	</body>
</html>
```

> [node document]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-node-document
> [content type]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document-content-type
> [descendant]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant
> [flat tree]: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-scoping/#flat-tree
> [grandfathered tags]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47#section-2.2.8
> [bcp 47]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47#section-2.1
> [valid language tag]: #valid-language-tag
> [whitespace]: #whitespace 'Definition of Whitespace'
> [visible]: #visible 'Definition of visible'
> [text node]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text
> [descendant]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant
> [attribute value]: #attribute-value 'Definition of Attribute Value'
> [included in the accessibility tree]: #included-in-the-accessibility-tree

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[attribute value]: #attribute-value 'Definition of Attribute Value'
[bcp 47]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47#section-2.1
[content type]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document-content-type
[descendant]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant
[flat tree]: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-scoping/#flat-tree
[grandfathered tags]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/bcp47#section-2.2.8
[included in the accessibility tree]: #included-in-the-accessibility-tree
[node document]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-node-document
[text node]: https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text
[valid language tag]: #valid-language-tag
[visible]: #visible 'Definition of visible'
[whitespace]: #whitespace 'Definition of Whitespace'
```
If it had been ordered in the first place, you'd probably have noticed the duplicate reference to "descendant" and clean it…
